The Joe Rogan experience.
How old were you when you had your first match?
Like that?
My first professional was 1919 fight king Zulu with
120 fights and four draws, only 120 victories.
He was a.
Big guy too. Yeah.
About 2 10, 2 20. And about a, uh,
yeah, he was a big guy. How much do you weigh at the time? 1 74.
Those, uh, matches are still available online. People can watch them. Yeah.
It's pretty.
Cool. I think so. Yeah. <laugh>.
Is it wild looking back at 19 year old, you fighting Zulu.
Was, uh, maybe the biggest experience in my life.
Cause at this point I felt like I was good. I was able to, to fight well,
but I didn't have the experience. So, and then one day I got home,
I saw my father talking with his, um,
Zulu manager in Brazilia the capital and the, and the guy tried to bring,
to invite my somebody's of my father team to fight Zulu.
And my father would say, no, I don't have nobody.
We don't fight Tuda for so long nobody's training for, and I,
I get the idea said, Hey, dad, put me and put me and put me in.
So I immediately ask him to, and he look at me and he mentioned to the,
to the V Santa. I said, yes, but I have my son here at 19 years old.
He wanna try. And the guy said, no, Mr. Mr. Gracie, this,
this is not a fight for him to try.
The guy is very tough and this and that as the guy tried to pull my father off
the deal, my father becomes more excited to the no,
but I think he gonna go handle the challenge, this and that.
So he's become excited with the, the situation. So,
and then we set up the fight month later, I was there to fight
and, uh,
we start the fight and, uh, he has a trade trade, uh, like,
uh, one movie he does,
which grab you with the hands between your legs and lift you up and throw you
over the, on, back on the floor. And as he approached that,
I moved back block his,
his shoulders and hit him with the knee right on his face was the best
knee I could possibly give in somebody and expect him to just,
I expect to win the fighting, right. That in that moment. But he just shook,
he stood up, leave his head, shook, speed,
a tooth <laugh> and start back, ready again to go. You know?
And then I felt like was really serious.
And the thing was much serious than I expect. And for the next 10 minutes,
because was 10 minutes rounds for the,
for the end of the round,
we just engage and fall on the ring and come back in and backing out.
And a lot of, a lot of commotion, a lot of strength.
And in the end of the round, I kind of crawling to the corner.
And I said to my dad, dad, I quit. I don't, I cannot go anymore. I'm tired.
And my dad not even listened to me said, he's tired. They, you he's worst.
Now he gonna kick his, do this and that. I said, dad, I'm serious, man.
I'm dead. I cannot go. And then my brother holds,
throw me a bucket of ice and water in my head.
I go and then Bing the REL, the bell rings. And I push in again.
And like my dad said,
I could beat the guy in three minutes because he was already tired, wasted chew.
So when I grabbed his back, he could not escape and I put him to sleep. And uh,
and then I confirmed my worst enemy was in my mind was the,
my enemy was in my brain. Tell me I have to quit. I have to.
So I decide and that day never hurt my my mind
tell bad things to me anymore.
So either I gonna die or I don't go. But if I go, I cannot say,
oh, I think I had enough. I think it's time to.
So this was the worst enemy I could have. And from that day on,
I decide to either go to putting everything on it or don't go at all.
So it was easier for me because I would start to, to,
to deal with one enemy only, not two enemies that my mind and my opponent.
It's probably the most common thing that happens to fighters is they lose
faith in themselves or they, they start to look for a way out. Yes.
That's pretty much a, because you don't see the other side,
you see yourself and you see you tired. You see with problems,
you start to see the negative aspects of you and you're not
putting yourself like the guy has the same problems. He has the same ideas.
So you have to keep going here as everything is normal. And it's hard to,
to people relate to that. You know, when you start to getting the problems,
you start to see yourself bigger than the other ones, you know,
more problems and worse, and that's not gonna be the,
the right way to resolve the matter.
It's interesting that you figured out how to handle these things, uh,
on your own on too, because this is, uh,
it's an area that fighters seek psychological help with now.
They hire psychologists and they,
they get hypnotized and they do all these different things to try to figure out
how to stop that negative conversation in the mind,
how to stop those negative voices and how to not give into that weak that wants
you to quit. Yes.
This power we all have within,
but some people don't even go for that. And they,
they seek for different people to help them, which is good too. But once you,
you become more intuitive when you become more enlightened
with your own potential, you able to resolve all the matters yourself,
you know, because it's all about your mindset.
It's how you think and how you believe and what you ready for and what you
prepare for and how you able to, to accept and surrender everything around you.
And that these moments that, where you do want to quit,
whether it's in training or in competition,
for people who understand that and have experienced that and have overcome it,
life becomes easier.
Yes. I think, you know, martial arts Andras with,
with complete idea is a Metaform for life. You know,
you become a good martial artist, you become a good person. You go,
you gonna become a happy person because you wanna be able to, to conquer your,
your happiness outside of the mat.
And to deal with your demons. Yes. And some people never fight those demons.
They never, so when something happens to them in life, some adversity comes up,
they're not accustomed to handling it. Yes.
And we're seeing a lot of that now with this, uh, pandemic,
we're seeing a lot of people freaking out because they've never really
experienced any true adversity in their life. Yes.
No, it's not only for that,
but because they ever thought about how to resolve those problems, you know,
they just thinking the problems there, what I gonna do,
but they don't thinking about how I can control the situation,
how I can be on top of this, how I can, you know,
just defend myself from those demons. And, and, and if you don't see you,
the perspective of how I can resolve my problems, you allow yourself to,
to, to put your problems in somebody else, hands to resolve for you.
And it's all about perspective. It's all about focus.
Watch the entire episode for free, only on Spotify.